MILESTONE 9 Final Confirmation of the TOBT

Definition The time at which the Aircraft Operator or Ground Handler provide their most accurate 
TOBT taking into account the operational situation.

Origin and priority The Aircraft Operator / Ground Handler provides the information.

Timing The information is provided t minutes before EOBT
(t is a parameter time agreed locally).

Data Quality Accuracy is agreed locally.

Effect The aim of the final TOBT is to give a timely, accurate and reliable assessment of the off-
block time. It is recognised that main benefits of sharing the TOBT are expected in case of 
disruptions (internal or external). In such cases, the difference between EOBT (shared by 
ATC, Network Operations and Stand / Gate Management) and TOBT may be important.

An accurate TOBT at [EOBT-t minutes] is a pre-requisite for ATC to establish a push back / 
pre-departure sequence. Emphasis is put on the need for the Aircraft Operator to integrate 
his own strategy to compute a TOBT related to the flight. Following the receipt of the TOBT, 
the ATC system will calculate and provide the Estimated Taxi-Out Time (EXOT) based on 
the predicted traffic load, gate / stand location, runway in use, and waiting period at the 
Holding Position, etc. 

The flight is introduced into the pre-departure sequence. The Aircraft Operator / Ground 
Handler, in coordination with the aircrew, can manage the turn-round process accordingly.

Procedures To check whether the AO/GH TOBT is consistent with the ATC Flight Plan. Network Opera-
tions is informed when the TTOT changes by more than the agreed TTOT tolerance.

This check should be performed at a predefined time (local parameter) to confirm TOBT 
prior to TSAT issue and verify feasibility of the ATC Flight Plan estimates given the updated 
TOBT. A TTOT tolerance is respected before Network Operations is informed on updated 
TTOT. 

This Milestone Process is actually constantly applicable in the CDM Platform, as soon as 
a TOBT is available. However the confirmed TOBT prior to TSAT has special status, where 
AO/GH check the quality of TOBT before TSAT issue. 

Operational Status 
(changes to) IN-BLOCK

Action on CDM This process is triggered by   	n  a new TOBT or TTOT update. No need to confirm an 
Operation (ACISP)      existing TOBT if it has been manually modified before.