MILESTONE 4 Local Radar Update

Definition The flight enters the FIR (Flight Information Region) or the local airspace of the destina-
tion airport.

Origin and priority This information is normally available from the Area Control Centre (ACC) or Approach Con-
trol Unit that is associated with an airport. The radar system is able to detect a flight based 
upon the assigned SSR code when the flight crosses a defined FIR/ATC boundary.

Timing Dependent upon the position of the airport in relation to the FIR boundary.

Data Quality Must be equal to the accuracy of the ATC system.

Effect Update of the ELDT can trigger a new TOBT to be entered by the AO/GH, or calculated 
automatically by the Airport CDM Platform. The accuracy of ELDT is particularly impor-
tant at this stage since downstream decisions are taken, such as stand /gate / aircraft 
changes, preparation of arrival sequence, preparation of ground handling operations, 
decisions for connecting passengers.

Uncertainty and ELDT non-accuracy at this stage significantly increase risks for bad and 
last minute decisions and internal disruptions. The objective to decrease the number of 
stand and gate changes in the last 30 minutes requires high accuracy regarding depar-
ture and arrival times. Therefore, taking into account the taxi-in time (EXIT), any change 
to a stand or gate is not preferred after ELDT-30’.

The update of TOBT for the related departing flight takes place following this milestone. 
Decisions such as the turn-round period, connecting passengers etc are taken and 
need to be stable at this event. An estimated in-block time (EIBT) is computed using the 
ELDT and the estimated taxi-in time.

Procedures To commence the TOBT process and check whether the AO/GH TOBT is consistent 
with the ATC Flight Plan. Network Operations is informed when the TTOT changes by 
more than the agreed TTOT tolerance.

This check shall be performed to verify feasibility of the ATC Flight Plan given the up-
dated TOBT. The TTOT tolerance is respected before Network Operations is informed 
of updated TTOT.

This process is triggered by
n   the detection of the flight by radar in either FIR, TMA, or on Final Approach.

Operational Status 
(changes to) FIR

Action on CDM 
Operation (ACISP) ELDT, EIBT, TOBT and TTOT updated
