MILESTONE 1 ATC Flight Plan Activated	

Definition The ICAO flight plan is submitted to ATC. The Airport CDM Platform is initiated for this flight, 
and all available information is processed.

Origin and priority The ATC Flight Plan is submitted by the Aircraft Operator and distributed by the IFPS. All 
involved ATC units receive the flight plan, including departure and destination aerodromes.

Timing Normally this takes place 3 hours before EOBT, however it may be later. In some cases a 
repetitive flight plan (RFPL) has been submitted, covering daily or weekly flights.

Data Quality The ATC Flight Plan corresponds to the airport slot programme.

Effect One aircraft turn-round normally includes an arriving and a departing flight, meaning that 
it will have two related flight plans. For coordinated airports, the outbound flight is already 
known. The flight plan may be used to update certain information such as type of aircraft. 
For long distance flights, the ELDT may differ from the airport slot. For non coordinated 
airports, the flight plan is used to initiate the outbound flight. The flight is ready not later than 
15 minutes after the planned EOBT. The DPI process commences the correct messaging 
with Network Operations (if implemented – see attachment 2 for details).

Procedures To check consistency between ATC Flight Plan, Airport Slot and Airport flight data and 
then confirm the flight to the Network Operations and allow further local processing of 
the flight.

This check shall be performed to verify the consistency between the ATC Flight Plan, Airport 
Slot and Airport flight data before the first E-DPI is sent. The AO must provide correct infor-
mation before this first E-DPI message, in order to feed Network Operations with consistent 
SOBT, aircraft registration, and first destination data, as early in time as possible. The E-DPI 
message should not be sent if no or inconsistent information is provided.

This process is triggered by:
n	 The first activation of the ATC Flight Plan (earliest EOBT-3 hr), or
n	 New or late submissions of the ATC Flight Plan, after cancellation or revised EOBT

Operational Status INITIATED
(changes to)

Action on CDM ELDT and EIBT updated for an arrival	
Operation (ACISP) EOBT and ETOT updated for a departure	

The DPI process commences (if implemented – see section 3.7.3 for details).